# openSUSE Heroes offsite meeting minutes

## Where: SUSE Event Area, SUSE HQ, Nuremberg, Germany, Earth, Solar System, Milky Way, Universe 

## When:  2018-03-04 / Day 2/2

## Who:

* all-time:
  * Christian Boltz
  * Christian MÃ¼ller
  * Per Jessen
  * Sarah Julia Kriesch
  * Theo Chatzimichos
  * Thorsten Bro
  * Bernhard Wiedemann

* part-time:
  * Ludwig Nussel

# Day 2 - Sunday - 2018-03-04

## monitoring.o.o / status.o.o

### status.o.o [tchatzimichos, tbro]

* Users and admin access
* Documenation / ReadMe needs to be done
* Add new users to status.o.o while Onboarding
* Script to check if ACL in tickets, status, FreeIPA agree
* Replace with static page
  * No DB, only Git
  * No syncing
  * DNS round-robin will be possible
  * Git syncing:
    * GitLab as central
    * Minimal gitolite mirror on each status instance
    * Multiple remotes on admin checkouts
  * Problem: What about mail checks
  * Check how Gentoo, Fedora and others handle it
    * status page by Fedora: https://status.fedoraproject.org/ (maually updated) -> https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/Infrastructure#Infrastructure_health_status
    * status page by Gentoo: https://infra-status-na1.gentoo.org/ -> https://wiki.gentoo.org/wiki/Project:Infrastructure/Servers (server overview)

* Current system
  * Update both: Incident and Service
  * Check documentation and update it [mcaj, AdaLovelace]

### monitoring.o.o [mcaj, AdaLovelace]

* Automatic update of status.o.o through monitoring 
  * Monitoring to send events to status
  * Status to check periodically if monitoring is accessible
  * Send events maybe through Salt exec modules

* Send messages via Salt to Icinga with the status.$function exec module
* collect status with nrpe / checkmk / salt -> send json to icinga
* Add server to salt and add its configs / services
* All clients need also basic setup via Salt
* Monitor from external (Master and Satelite) / (per offered a machine)
* NTP to chrony (check_mk offers it)
* icinga1 to icinga2 migration
* Monitoring in Provo
* Thruk to combine Nue/Prv/External

## Sponsoring [tbro]

* HW-Wishlist / Colocation-Space / Rootservers -> Write a wishlist [tbro]
* cpanel sponsored us this year with new 10Gig converged network adapters - thanks a lot!
* general sponsorship contact is Doug - who always should be the first contact
  * Silver / Gold / Platinum states can be found on:
    https://en.opensuse.org/Sponsors
* We found out, that maybe not all sponsors are always up-to-date (search.o.o, build.o.o, opensuse.o, etc.)
  * We want to provide a service: sponsors.o.o where you can get
    * all sponsor logos via a URL in standard format / designs which fit in opensuse-design
    * deliver a random sponsor logo: http://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_random_index_module.html
    * talk to Doug, designers and setup such a service [tbro]
* We took part in the TK-Award from ThomasKrenn
  * Unfortunately, we were not in the winners' list :'(
* Find a replacement with root-servers, rackspace or CDN-solution for widehat.o.o (talk to BuildOPS) [tbro]
* Evaluate CDN77 possibilities [cmueller]
* Heinlein -> proceed with mailsetup of opensuse.org and evaluate possibilities [cmueller]

## Release Management

* progress.o.o - update without plugins
* pontifex monitor bandwith - would be helpful to find bugs
* openSUSE / publishing-scripts (on GitHub)
  * they are used for Leap15 only - at the moment
  * Tumbleweed should switch to them as well in future
* Piwik should be split or moved - ask all relevant teams
* Release (Leap15) will happen after oSC18

## Lessons learned

* This meeting was more focused on maintenance and filling up the ToDo list for the future, in our first meeting in 2016, we were more focused on learning about infrastructure
* Well organized, no presentation missing, here are things to be done - and here are the people who do it
* Presentations about major topics: Network, Cloud, Mirror infrastructure, Salt were not given, but were not really missing
* We want at least one more in-person meeting during the year - one per year is not enough
  * Plans are after the oSC (summer and beyond)
* On the next meeting, we should have reports of the splitted responsibilities, everybody who took over a responsibility should give a 10-15min overview as a status report about the "specialists topic" what the responsible was working on in the last months
* We should maybe increase the communication on #openSUSE-admin @ Freenode - it is not really busy and we should maybe talk about more topics there

## Future topics

* Do we want to have the "traditional presentation" at the oSC18 like every year?
  * We don't want to have the "traditional presentation" at oSC18
  * Theo wants to give a presentation on Salt testing in the openSUSE infrastructure
  * Overview of the Heroes could be inside the last board talk
  * We want to do a short advertisement at the openSUSE Lightning Beer talks - it will be 5-10 minutes talk - saying that we're hiring
